In this video we'll be calculating our
safe zone around our play space and
setting up a slightly ugly looking grid,
so we know exactly where our tiles spaces
will be, so we know what our
artists should be creating.
Let's jump in and get started.
Let's start by creating
our game play scene.
I'm gonna do that by
duplicating my start scene, and
renaming this as Level 1, Level 1.
Okay, double-click on that to make sure
that it's the one that we're working on
and it's loaded.
For now, I don't really need to my Start
Game and Quit, so I'm just gonna hide
them, just in case I want to change that
and put some text on the screen later on.
Just saves me from having to
recreate them in the future.
And the image, rather than
having this frog kind of thing,
we're going to have our lanes with
our garden kind of theme to it.
If you remember our game play screen
from our GDD, we've got our lanes.
So five lanes and then by one,
two, three, four, five, six,
seven, eight, nine squares.
These two squares I intend that
the player can't place within, and
you can place within these seven.
So a little bit of room for resources,
and then room for defenders.
And then the attackers are coming in
off-screen, and then going into the base.
So for the moment,
I'm just gonna use placeholder art.
This image,
I'll click on it on the selector.
And then, so I've clicked on
Image over in the Inspector,
I've clicked on the selection thingy here,
and then just to click on None.
So now it's just white.
I'll change this a little bit to green,
just so we remember that it's garden.
So there's our green image that we've
got that represents our play space.
It's 1920 by 1080, that's our reference
size that we've got for this.
Obviously, it's gonna scale up if we're
on a device that has more pixels, and
scale down if it's less pixels.
What we're mostly interested in,
what is going to happen if we're on
a different size, different shape,
so 16:9 goes down to 4:3.
It chops off the side because we've got
our canvas setting that we had from our
Start Screen we're also using in Level 1,
which is Shrink.
I think that's the right way to do this,
so
Shrink works well as
chopping off the sides.
That means we need to have a safe zone.
So just back to 16:9.
How do we figure out our safe zone?
What exact size do we need?
Well, let's jump over here.
I've got a little diagram for
calculating our safe zone.
We know that our 16:9
is 1920 pixels x 1080.
Our 4:3, what is that?
How many pixels by how many pixels?
Well, we know that for our 16:9,
it's 1920 pixels horizontally and 1080.
We know that 4:3 it's also gonna be
1080 cuz it's chopping off the width,
it's not chopping off the height.
So the height is gonna be 1080.
Therefore, what is the length of
our horizontal when we're on 4:3?
And once we know that, we know how much
safe zone we need on the right and
on the left.
So that's gonna be your challenge,
to calculate what exactly
in pixels is our width on a 4:3
aspect ratio, if our height is 1080.
So take a moment and
calculate that now, if you will.
Okay, so if you know the magic formula,
then that's pretty easy to do.
But if not, let me explain it.
So with 16:9,
another way to say that is as a decimal,
as a ratio we can divide 16 by 9.
So if I bring up my calculator,
here we say,
16 divided by 9 equals 1.777.
That's a way of saying that for
every one unit we are high,
we are 1.7 units wide for our width.
So we get this ratio of 1.77.
So then if we were to say,
what is 1,080 times
by 1.77777777, it equals,
pretty much with some rounding,
it equals 1,920.
Okay, so you can see that that works.
Now, what does that mean for 4:3?
well we take our 1080 So
we take our 4 and we divide by 3.
So I think I've got this on my slide.
Okay, as a decimal that
is 4/3 = 1.33333333.
So that means that our width needs to be
1.333333 times as wide as
we are high on the 1080.
And if we do our calculation here,
Calc, my calculator keeps going away.
No, there it is, good.
Now I have two.
Excellent.
If we do that, we can times this by 1.333.
Another way to do it, which I think's
gonna give us less wacky decimals,
is to say 1080 times by 4 divided by 3.
That's the same as times by 1.33.
We're just doing it the manual way,
times by 4.
So times by 4 divided by 3.
That gives us 1,440 as our width
along our horizontal, 1,440.
So that's how we calculate.
And so therefore, we need 1920 minus 1440.
Again with our calculator, so 1920-
1440 means that this plus this
is going to add up to 480.
We'll divide that by 2 to
find what each of these are.
That means that the right side 240
pixels and the left side is 240
pixels cuz 240 plus 1440
plus 240 equals 1920.
Okay, there we go.
That's cool.
The main number we need
to know here now is 1440.
Let's jump back over into Unity, and we're
going to make ourselves a little play
space, a safe zone we'll put in there.
The way we're gonna do that is by
duplicating our image, so I Ctrl+D,
duplicate.
This one, I'll rename, instead of Image,
I'll say this is Background.
Yeah, Background is good for now.
And then this other new image
that I've put in there,
I'm gonna say this is our Safe Zone.
Safe Zone, and we need to change the safe
zone, you can see here we've got width and
height.
I'm gonna change this to 1440,
and I'm gonna leave it at 1080.
Change the Color to be a bluey kind
of color, and drop the transparency.
Nah, I'll leave the blue out for
now, for the moment.
So there you can see we've got our regular
background and our safe play zone.
Now if we were to get in there and
say, hmm, okay, well, how many units?
What is the width of one of our squares?
So, we need to have our squares.
Back to my GDD.
[SOUND] Okay.
So we wanna have nine
squares in our safe zone.
So we know absolutely,
no matter what device the player is on,
they will see these squares,
these nine by five.
They're gonna see those.
Okay, so we need to calculate what is
the width of one of these squares, so
that we can tell our
artist what to create or
we can create that ourselves
in terms of these squares.
So how do we calculate that?
Well, that one is going
to be straight forward.
If we have nine squares and
we know that the width is 1440,
bring up our calculator again.
No, now it's disappeared.
Okay, calculator, calc, double calc,
there we go [LAUGH], sorry about that.
So we say 1,440 divided by 9,
and why is that?
Cuz we know this is 1440, and
we know we want 9 squares
from gameplay point of view.
That equals 160, and
we are going to make these square.
These squares are gonna be square.
That makes sense, doesn't it?
So it's gonna be 160 by 160.
And we know this point down the bottom
here, one, two, three, four, five,
is gonna be 160 times 5, which equals 800.
So our actual grid, our actual play space,
where we want people running around,
is 1,440 by 800 with each
of these squares being 160.
So let's go back and
just put in one of these squares for
now, just to show how it all works.
So I'm gonna take Safe Zone and
duplicate that again,
just cuz I'm being a little bit lazy with
this, and we'll say this is a Square.
We'll change the square to be what color,
we'll make this a pretty
brightish kind of color and
change the dimensions to be 160 by 160.
And there you can see that we've got
one square that we can position,
wherever our heart desires.
And if we were to duplicate this, and
a tricky way to do that is to say,
Ctrl + D or Cmd + D, while I'm on this.
And then grab the anchor,
put it to where you want it,
Ctrl + D, grab the anchor, and so on.
You could lay out your nine squares and
make a little game here.
It's a very manual way of doing it for
now, but you could lay it out,
play your game and say, is nine good?
Do we want ten, do we want five?
So you go through this whole
prototyping phase with these squares,
you'd probably wanna
checkerboard them actually.
Do that one that color and
then that one this color and so.
So I duplicate this one,
Ctrl + D, [SOUND].
So it's a little bit crappy for
now, it's not snapping,
it's kinda a little bit rough and ready,
but we've played around with this
in previous sections of the course.
You could, if you wanted, lay it out like
that to see if that is the way that you
want to have your play space, and run with
this placeholder art the way through.
Now, I've gone ahead and
already prototyped this game, so
I know that 9 by 5 works out pretty well.
So I'm gonna be providing you with
some art for that in the next video.
But for now, I just wanted to show
you the process of how I came up with
this is what my safe zone needed to be.
This is how big I wanted my squares.
Does this number of squares
feel good in my game?
If I duplicate that and put that
down there, and then do that again.
Although, now it needs to be
checkerboarded and offset.
Does that feel like it's the right
amount of stuff to have in my game?
And it does, it feels,
very good to do it that way.
Okay, so that's all for this video.
We'll get some graphics in
there in the next video and
have it look a little bit prettier.
Great work and see you again soon!